Link to Visualization: https://us-west-2b.online.tableau.com/t/esportsearningsaglobalmapoftop100playersmediansalariesin8games/views/EsportsEarningsAGlobalMapofTop100PlayersMedianSalariesin8Games/EsportsDashboard/164017b2-3c8c-4763-81f8-575d0390f97d/27a86069-8d46-4e3b-86c6-285968587d0f

IMPORTANT NOTE: YOU MUST LOGIN TO TABLEAU IN ORDER TO VIEW THIS DOCUMENT. I WAS GOING TO UPLOAD TO GITHUB BUT DUE TO COVID I WAS UNABLE TO GET ACCESS TO THE REPOSITORY IN TIME, HENCE I DECIDED TO UPLOAD TO A PRIVATE TABLEAU SERVER. 

Secondary note: As mentioned above, I tested positive for Covid so my apologies as this was a bit rushed (I did this solo nonstop over 2 days), and was not able to implement as many features as I had hoped. That being said I am happy with how it turned out. 

I decided to analyze a dataset of 800 esports players, the top 100 paid players from 8 of the most popular games. I was particularly interested in seeing the reach of esports, and their viability as a form of livelihood even if it is focusing on a very small, highly talented group. Because of my focus on international scope, I chose to use a geographic map. Since proportions of landmass didn't matter for this visual, I decided to use the Mercator :/ as it wouldn't draw away attention unnecessarily and would be something the viewer is arguably most familiar with. For visual encodings I decided to mostly on color to show a disparity in participating countries. The color choice of green for healthy or prominent was used to show a large scene of esports (where most of these good players lived) whereas yellow or gray represented dead or nonexistant. I chose not to use red because a small presence or lack thereof doesn't have any negative connotation in this sense, and I didn't want to improperly convey that to the viewer. As for interaction techniques, I wanted to display not only the amount of players in each country, but also break it down by whichever games they played within those countries. For example, Korea has a very large base for Starcraft II and League of Legends, and I wanted to have something that would make it easier to compare the esports scene in Korea to say the US with regards to not only which games are most popular, but also how much money these players make. As a result I decided on a bar graph for player count in each country by game, and also a median salary graph by game. This however didn't bode well with showing outliers in certain countries depending on the games, so I opted to add an addition box plot to help show the disparity in how certain sports pay (for example, CSGO pays relatively consistently whereas League of Legends did not). I also wanted this to be visualized on the map so I added a drop down feature that would rescale the color encoidng. 

Finally, as for how I worked about this project, I started and actually spent nearly a whole day using observableHQ and decided to swap back to Tableau. I realized that the scaling of the project would be difficult for me to implement in such a short period of time on d3.js, and while it may have allowed for more customization options I am much more comfortable with Tableau and knew I could redo what I had already done in observableHQ and complete most of what I had hoped in the last day assuming I would wake up early enough. In total I spent around 20 hours combined, maybe 3 on data wrangling/EDA, 6 on d3.js development, and 11 on Tableau as the interactive elements proved to be a bit tricky to manipulate. The most difficult part in terms of time was certainly implementing the countries in Tableau as I had to go back and manually edit the data sheet to change the country codes to actual names for the map to work, or potentially setting up Tableau to host on the cloud (Took around 2 hours and it's currently 11:53pm as I'm typing this). I wish I had more time for this, and will redouble my efforts on the final project as I definitely could do more but unfortunately life was just not cooperating with me this time. 